---
title: "Redis"
categories: Technology
toc: true
---

# Redis

Modified: Mar 14, 2021 4:56 PM

## References:

- Book: Redis Microservices for dummies

## Glossary:

- Atomicity: two or more actions occure in a way that are incapable of being interrupted.

## Definition:

Redis is a highly popular, open-source, widely used NoSQL in-memory database that focuses on high-performance use cases.

Redis was originally designed to solve a particular problem and to be as small and fast as possible. 

- Is used to store active data that will change and move often with an indefinite structure with no concepts of relations.

Prerequisites:

- Basic knowledge about Microservice Architecture

## Using Redis of Messaging

### Pub/Sub

The pub/sub system is fire and forget, so it's not right for every messaging situation, but it's extremely useful to notify a service to check for something else.

Fire and forget: a way of communication that doesn't retain the sent message

### Redis Streams

Redis hỗ trợ data type có stream of timestamp-ordered key/value pairs in a single key.

→ Consumer có thể pick up dữ liệu (hoặc wait cho dữ liệu đó đến) dựa trên timestamp.

### Redis Lists

Redis Lists are doubly-linked lists of elements (strings) stored at a single key. 

Like Streams, Lists can wait for new elements. List are a great way of representing a FIFO queue. Lists can also be rotated or atomically transferred from one key to another, easily creating a queue with an additional pending queue.

## Using Redis for Storage

### Hashes

Redis Hashes are much like a key/value store inside a key/value store. A single hash is referred to by a key that contains any number of fields and values

### Sorted sets

Sorted sets in Redis are sets with scores, or intrinsic numeric sorting values, for each member (represented by a string).  This allow for Redis to easily retrieve numbers between given scores or at the top or bottom of the score range. 

### Search

RediSearch, a Redis module, accommodates full-text search. This allows Redis to store documents and search across multiple fields and types. 

### Graph

RedisGraph, a Redis module, is designed to store nodes and ad hoc relationships. Each node contains a single-depth series of attributes; those nodes can be connected to each other through relationships that can also have attributes. Collectively, the nodes and relationships are referred to as a graph. The graph can be queried with the Cypher query language.

### JSON

JSON documents can be stored in Redis using the RedisJSON module. This module allows for the storage of complex, deeply nested JSON documents each at its own key. By specifying a path, you can retrieve parts of a JSON document very precisely.

## Using Redis for Caching

Redis is a very fast database that runs entirely in-memory. As a consequence, it can be placed in front of your existing disk-based database or to prevent an expensive or time-consuming API call.

Redis has built-in timers that remove data at keys after a specified time period (time to live, or TTL) as well as very efficient key presence checking. These two features allow your application to make a quick check in Redis before going out and making a slower or more expensive call. You can use TTL to ensure you're not returning stale data. Additionally you can specify database-width eviction policies that ensure that you're optimally using your memory.

Redis Enterprise also enables you to extend your RAM into flash memory with Redis on Flash.

## Describing a Redis-powered Microservices Architecture

NoSQL rất phù hợp đối với các service nhỏ.

Saga design pattern is a way to manage data consistency across microservices in distributed transaction scenarios. A saga is a sequence of transactions that updates each service and publishes a message or event to trigger the next transaction step.

# Chapter 2: Microservices Communicating Patterns

## Stateless service

The service itself becomes greatly simplified and boiled down to logic only. 

# Chapter 3: Distributed State with Microservices

## Contributor
- [minhdq99hp](mailto:minhdq99hp@gmail.com) $\dagger$
